hey what's up guys so in this video
we're going to be breaking down the
difference between copyrights and
trademarks if you're not sure what the
difference between
them are this video is for you perhaps
you're wondering if you should trademark
or copyright your logo business name
product line
this video is going to answer the
following questions one
how are trademarks and copyrights
different two
what can be trademarked and what can be
copyrighted
and three how should you approach
copyrights and trademarks and what
should you think about in terms of
project
protecting your logo business name and
branding
now before we delve too deep into this
topic let me just say that at the end of
this video
you will be able to choose what's best
for you whether it's a copyright or
trademark
and i have individual copyright and
trademark videos that walk you through
them
separately in way more detail so go
ahead and earmark those videos so you
can watch them later
after you finish watching this one all
right so let's get down to the nitty
gritty
what is a trademark anything that
identifies the source
of a good or service think about it in
terms of
where does it come from who made it
where does it originate from
for example if i showed you this would
you know where this came from
most of you guys knew as soon as you saw
it what it was
and i'm not even showing you the logo
for this but you understand
where the source of this box this fry
box came from
or if i showed you these and i said hey
where do you guys think
i got these from who made this versus if
i showed you these
and then it's kind of clear who made
them where the source is for this
and you'll notice i never showed you the
logo for either of those goods but i'm
sure
that you knew where i got them from
right that's the power of the trademark
so it might be a logo it might be a
color
it might be a symbol but it gives the
brand recognition right
i always tell people to flip these words
trademark and copyright
so let's flip the word trademark it's
the mark in the trade
there are classes of trades that
businesses will fall under so for
example you might have
a clothing footwear headyear versus
services for food and drinks and you
register your mark
based on the applicable trade which
means that
a cell phone repair company called in
and out is probably not going to
infringe on a burger company called in
and out
two different trades right so now let's
talk about what can be
trademarked this is the fun stuff
so i'm going to give you a small list um
you have words
logos symbols colors sounds smells
slogans
for a detailed list of what can be
trademarked as well as examples of each
be sure to download the trademark verse
copyright 101 packet
at the link below it's 100 free and it
will help you to better understand how
to approach protecting your own branded
assets
so that you can be confident when you go
into the marketplace and start making
that shmoney
now something that's very distinct about
trademarks and copyrights is how they're
obtained
trademarks are filed via an application
they are not automatic
now why would you trademark these things
right
you trademark to eliminate confusion in
the marketplace because your brand
represents a certain company culture
set of values a guarantee of quality and
cultural currency
so to protect other companies from
trying to use your branding on their
items or to
intentionally or accidentally cause
confusion about the source of a good or
service
you create a trademark and that's
basically to say look buddy
you are trying to reap the benefits of
my company's authority in the
marketplace to make more sales that's
not gonna fly
uh say for example this box had a golden
cue on it
not going to fly right and it's to
protect the consumer
really trademarks are to make sure that
when people purchase they're getting
what they want
or getting what they thought now if you
guys found this video valuable
hit the like button so i know to make
more content just like this and don't
forget to subscribe
and hit the bell so you'll be notified
when i post more videos
all right now let's hop on over to
copyright what is a copyright we're
going to do the same thing we did with
trademark
flip the word write to copy reproduce
alter
use sell copies of perform or display
the work or
artistic expression this is about work
product
ownership think who maintains control
as the rightful owner of this art
trademark is about the source of goods
and services and trademarks have to be
filed
copyrights do not have to be filed
because they are automatically given
to the artist or the creator of the work
all right
so let's break that down a little bit
more the copyright is to protect the
creator
what can be copyrighted blogs all right
so writers
blogs video photos photographers music
slogans songs to name a few this is not
an exhaustive list if you guys want more
of what can and cannot be copyrighted or
trademarked be sure to get that download
but let's walk you through a
hypothetical you have a logo and you
partner with an
organization and maybe your logo is a
lot like the mcdonald's golden arch it's
always
in gold and red this organization you
partner with
turns your logo pink for breast cancer
awareness without your permission
that's a copyright violation potentially
and if you want to know the way around
this be sure to watch
to watch my copyright video in this
series